# ELB_AUTOSCALING_ROUTE53

Steps to Host a Website on AWS Using EC2, ELB, Auto Scaling, and Route 53
I am using both ELB and Auto Scaling; they help ensure our website remains available in any server crashes.

1. EC2 Instance 
First, create an EC2 instance and host your website on that instance.
EC2 instance should be created using our old project steps link is -https://github.com/suyogvarpe/PHP_PROJECT_USING_RDS/blob/main/Steps
Create an image (AMI) of this EC2 instance. Delete the EC2 instance after creating the image.

3. Security Groups
Create two security groups:
*First Security Group: For the ELB (Elastic Load Balancer).
Inbound Rule: Add HTTPS protocol with source 0.0.0.0/0.
Outbound Rule: Allow all traffic with destination 0.0.0.0/0.
*Second Security Group: For EC2 instances.
Inbound Rules:
Add SSH protocol.
Add HTTP protocol with source as the First Security Group (to allow traffic from ELB to EC2).

4. Auto Scaling
Go to Auto Scaling and choose "Create from My Launch Template".
Create a launch template using the AMI created from the previously hosted EC2 instance.
Use this launch template to create an Auto Scaling group.

5. ELB (Elastic Load Balancer)
Create a Target Group.
Add all EC2 instances (launched by auto scaling) to this target group.
Create an ELB and attach the created target group to it.
Copy the DNS name of the ELB and paste it into your browser to verify if the website is hosted correctly

6. Route 53
Purchase a domain from any domain registrar (e.g., GoDaddy, Namecheap).
My purchased domain is cushionart.store which is purchased from Namecheap site
Go to AWS Route 53 and create a Hosted Zone using the purchased domain.
Create a Record Set:
Enter your subdomain (e.g., www).
Choose Alias and select the ELB.
Copy all the Name Server records from Route 53 and update them on your domain registrar's website under the Name Server settings.
Finally, type your domain name with www (e.g., www.example.com) in the browser — it should redirect to your hosted website.

If you want to check this works or not , kindly terminate Ec2 instance, it should start new Ec2 automatically. Auto scaling method should work here.
